Entity Modeling
--------------------
(OpenTextProcess Platform 16.3)

Entity Modeling is a feature available with Process Platform for OpenText Process Suite. entity modeling as a component of Process Platform.
allows more teams in an organization to model and describe common elements of an industry’s data without performing low-level code development
this development process allows work to be distributed evenly across a business, and includes more teams in the contribution of the overall solution.

- Entity Modeling for OpenText Process Platform v16.0 - First Edition: April 2016
  Entity Modeling for OpenText Process Platform v16.3 - Second Edition: March 2018


create and build entities > populate by modeling tools and building blocks. >  use your entities to create full user interfaces

CUSP refers to the user start page.Entity modeling is an application in the palette.

The content of the application palette depends on the roles that are assigned 

identity package is a construct in Process Suite which represents an
organizational model across multiple platforms, including Process
Experience and OpenText Directory Services (OTDS)


Q and April
-------------------
1.What is an application palette?
An Application palette is a window from which you can open or select applications, documents
etc. Examples are: My Applications, the Shortcut bar and your personalized view.
2. What is an artifact?
An application palette contains options that you can start, open, select, etc., like the User
Manager and My Inbox in the My Applications App Palette. The generic name for each is an
Artifact. In your own application you can also use this technique to select options instead of,
for example, a drop-down box.
3. When you open the User Manager application, which users do you see by default?
By default, only your own user name is displayed when opening the User Manager. When you
click the Show All button, you will see all the users in your organization.
4. Which version of OpenText Process Platform is currently installed?
The build information comes in three parts:  Version: 16.3  Build: 2039  Revision: 329539



Create a collaborative workspace (CWS)
-------------------------------------------------
1. In the browser, click the Process Platform shortcut for the Warehouse
organization in the Favorites bar.
2. Log in to Process Platform with the user name analyst@training.local
and password opentext if you are not logged in already.
3. In the upper right corner of the user start page, confirm that you are
using the Warehouse organization.
If you are in any organization other than Warehouse, select Warehouse
from the Organizations drop-down. Wait for the user start page to
refresh when you switch organizations.
4. If you did not do so in the previous exercise, create shortcuts for
Workspace Documents and New Document in the shortcut bar.
You will use these shortcuts frequently in this course
5. Click the Workspace Documents artifact.
The first time the Workspace Document Explorer is started it takes a while
to load all the required components.
6. Click the insert (+) button to create a new workspace.
7. Provide the following details:
a. Name: Northwind Workspace
b. Description: Workspace for Northwind applications
c. Source Control Management type: SVN for team development
8. Click Next.
9. Complete the source control repository properties:
a. URL: file:///C:/SVNRepository/bpm
b. Username: sysadmin
c. Password: opentext
10. Click Test Connection and ensure that you are able to connect to the
local repository.
11. Click Next.
12. Fill in the properties of the project, providing the following values:
a. Project Name: Warehouse Application
b. Package Owner: Northwind
c. Product Name: Warehouse Application
13. Click Next.
14. Review the summary and click Create
15. Click Close when the workspace has been created successfully.

Build a Product entity
-------------------------
4. Right-click the Entities folder and select New > Other.
5. In the New Document dialog, type entity in the search bar. 
6. Click Entity.
The Entity Designer appears. Remember that an Identity is added by
default to every new entity.
7. Click Show/Hide entity properties.
8. In the Entity properties section, set the Display name and Name to
Product
9. save
10. Click Identity in the left section.
The Identity’s properties are opened in the right section of the window.
Every entity has a mandatory Identity with a default name: Identity. This
name cannot be edited.
11. Close the entity.
The Product entity is listed inside the Entities folder in your project.

Validate and commit the Warehouse Application project
--------------------------------------------------------
1. Open the Workspace Documents application if it is not already open.
2. Right-click the Warehouse Application project.
3. Select Validate.
Validation should complete successfully.
4. Click Close
5. Commit your changes to the repository. Click Make Changes Available
to Others ( ) in the workspace toolbar.
Changes will be synchronized with the repository
6. In the committal dialog, enter a comment: “My first entity”.
7. Click Make Available.
8. Click Close once the changes have been committed.
9. If you wish to review the changes in the repository, click Show Change
History

Create a subtype of Product
----------------------------------
1. In the Northwind workspace, right-click the Product entity and select
Create subtype.
The entity editor dialog appears.
2. Show the entity properties if they are not already present.
3. Set the Display name and Name to PerishableProduct.
4. Save your changes.


Answers to test your knowledge
-----------------------------------
1. What makes a workspace “collaborative”?
Each workspace is stored on Process Platform server according to its organization. If a Source
Control Management (SCM) system is installed, the workspace can be checked into the SCM
server and checked out by other team members who have access to it. In this way, other users
can contribute to the contents of the workspace in a global initiative and share work with their
teammates anywhere in the world.
2. What is the common name given to objects you build in Process Platform (for example,
entities, business process models, case models, business rules, etc.)?
Documents.
3. What are the two types of organizations in Process Platform? What are the differences
between them?
System and Development.
The System Organization is included by default with every Process Platform installation. It is
the single organization which a system administrator will use to manage information relevant
to the entire Process Platform system. It is not intended for development, nor is it intended for
any user other than the system administrator.
Development organizations are created by the Process Platform system administrator in order
to perform development work. These organizations are created specific to each business.
Users are granted access to these organizations by the system administrator to perform
certain duties (e.g., developer, deployer, analyst, etc.) relevant to the organization.
4. Which property or building block is automatically added to a new entity? What is the
significance of this property?
Identity.
The Identity building block functions as a primary key to help uniquely identify each instance of
the entity. Examples of an Identity may be Product Number for Products, Order ID for Orders,
Social Security Number for People, Employee ID for Employees, etc.

Add property building blocks to an entity
----------------------------------------------

3. Double-click the Product entity to open it in the editor.
4. Click Add.
5. Select Property from the building blocks on the left.
6. Set the Display Name to Name
7. Set the Name to ProductName
8. Set the Property Type to Text
9. Set the Length to 64
10. Click Add.
11. Add another Property (Add > Property).
12. Set the Display Name to Category.
13. Set the Name to CategoryID
14. Set the Property Type to Enumerated Integer.
15. Select the Sort list by display name check box.
16. The initial value in the enumerated integer list is a null value. Set the display Name of the null value to N/A 
 Click + to add a new value.
18. Set the display name to Beverages and the value to 1.
19. Include the following additional values and Display Names:

Display Name       Value
Condiments           2
Confections          3
Dairy Products       4
Grains/Cereals       5
Meat/Poultry         6
Produce              7
Seafood              8


20. Click Add and continue
21. Add the following Property building blocks:


DisplayName                 Name                 PropertyType       Length            Currency
Shipping Units           QuantityPerUnit               Text             64
Price per Unit           UnitPrice                Currency                                CAD
In Stock                 UnitsInStock             Integer
On Order                 UnitsOnOrder              Integer
Reorder Level            ReorderLevel             Integer
Discontinued             Discontinued              Boolean


22. After creating the Property of Boolean type, set the Display Name of the
true value to Yes, the false value to No, and the “none” value to N/A
23. Set the false value of the Boolean property type to be Default
24. Click Add to add the Boolean property.
25. Save and close the Product entity.
26. Validate the entity in the workspace.



Create a parent-child relationship in the Order entity
---------------------------------------------------------
2. Expand the Warehouse Application and the Entities folder.
3. Double-click the Order entity to open it in the editor.(create order entity)
4. Click Add.
5. Choose the Relationship building block.
6. Set the Display Name to Order Line and Name to childOrderLine
7. Set the Type to To child.The Multiplicity is automatically set to many.
8. Set the Child display name to Line Item
9. Click Add.
The Relationship is added under the list of Relationship building blocks in
the editor.
10. Save the Order entity.
11. Click Configure child entity.



Add title to the Order entity
1. Open the Order entity from the Warehouse Application if it is not already open.
2.click Add.
3. Select Title.
4. Leave the default values selected.
5. Click Add.
6. Select the Title building block from the entity editor.
7. Change the Create By option to System.
8. Set the Title Specification to Order.
9. Save and close the Order entity
10.Validate application.


Create a theme for the Northwind application
-----------------------------------------------
1. Return to Process Platform and the Northwind Workspace.
2. Right-click the Warehouse Application project and select New > Folder.
3. Set the name of the folder to Themes
4. Right-click the Themes folder and select New > Other.
5. In the New Document dialog, select Theme
You can use the search filter to narrow down the documents by name.
6. In the Header section, click Browse image
7. Navigate to C:\Support Files and select Northwind Banner.gif.
8. Click Open.
9. For the Background, select Gradient.
10. Set the Top color to be #65dfdf and the Bottom color to be #429c9c
11. Set the Font name to Helvetica.
12. Set the Panels Border color to #c9f9f9.
13. Set the Text color for the Global action bar to #429c9c and the
Background color to #f7f7aa
14. Save the theme with the name Northwind Theme
Make sure the location is Warehouse Application/Themes.
15. Click Preview in the theme editor header
16. Close the preview window.
17. Close the theme editor.


Create a list for the product entity in Process Platform
------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Expand the Warehouse Application and Entities folder.
3. Double-click the Product entity to open it in the editor.
4. Click Add.
5. Select List.
6. Set the Display Name to Product Catalog
7. Set the Name to ActiveProducts
8. Set the Default Category to Products
9. Set the Display Count to Only in results
10. Set the Results per page to 200
11. Make sure that Visible to end user is selected.
12. Click Add.



Add properties and filters to a list
-------------------------------------

1. Open the Product entity 
2. Select the ActiveProducts list from the list of building blocks.
3. Click Configure
4. On the Properties tab, select Name, Price per Unit, In Stock, Category,
and Discontinued in that order.
If you make a mistake with the order, select the correct property from
the right panel and use the Move Up/Move Down buttons as
appropriate.
5. Set the Column label to Name
6. Set the Column alignment for Name to Left
7. Set the Sorting for Name to Ascending
8. Select the Include as filter check box for Name.
9. Set the other following details for the remaining Properties:

Property                Columnlabel    Alignment      Sorting        Include as filter    Hide in results
Price per Unit             Cost          Right          None                True              False
In Stock                  On Hand        Left           None                False             False
Category                                 Left           None                True              False
Discontinued                             Left           None                False             True


10.Select the filters tab.
11. Set the evaluation criteria to one.
12. From the select drop-down, select Discontinued.
Although you set Discontinued to be hidden from the results, it is still part of
the list.
13. Set the operator for Discontinued to equal to
14. Set the operand for Discontinued to False
The list will only select those products which are not discontinued (i.e.,
active products).
15. Click Save.
16. Close the ActiveProducts list.
17. Save the Product entity.
18. Close the editor.
19. Validate the Warehouse Application.


Build an action bar for product
----------------------------------------
1. Open the Product entity from the Warehouse Application.
2. Click Add.
3. Select Action bar.
4. Set the Display Name to Default.
5. Set the Name to abarDefault
6. Set the Description to Default action bar.
7. Click Add.
8. Select the abarDefault action bar from the list of action bar building
blocks in the entity.
9. Click Configure
10. Under the Identity actions, select Open and Print.
11. Click Save.
12. Close the action bar editor.
13. Save and close the entity.
14. Validate the Warehouse Application project.


Add an action bar to a list
-------------------------------
1. From the Warehouse Application project, open the Product entity.
2. Select the ActiveProducts list.
3. In the right panel, change the Action Bar field to Default
4. Save and validate the entity


Administer Northwind workspace in Process Experience
Administration Console
-------------------------------------------------------
1. Save and close any open entities you may have.
2. Validate the Warehouse Application.
3. Right-click the Warehouse Application and select Publish to
Organization
.
Only those projects which can be validated will be published.
4. Open a new browser window.
5. Use the bookmarks to navigate to the Process Experience
Administration Console:
http://localhost:81/home/warehouse/app/admin/web/config ->  http://nb1001:8080/home/Biswal/app/admin/web/config

6. Log in as user analyst@training.local if you need to.
You should not need to log in: you should automatically be logged in
through the single sign-on aspects.
7. Select the NorthwindWarehouseApplication from the list of
Workspaces.
There should not be any warnings.
8. Expand the Solution Security configurable element.
9. Select Use Solution.
10. On the right, under the Roles grouping, make sure the Entity Runtime
User... and everyoneInwarehouse roles are checked.
You may need to scroll to the bottom of the role list to find
everyoneInwarehouse
11. Open another new browser window.
12. Navigate to the Process Experience home page:
http://localhost:81/home/warehouse/app/processExperience/web/perform  ->  http://nb1001:8080/home/Biswal/app/processExperience/web/perform

13. Log in as user analyst@training.local if you need to.
14. Click Home Page > Home Page.
15. Confirm that the Product Catalog list appears under the lists panel.
16. Click the Filter icon to confirm that you are able to filter on name, cost,
and category

Add a generic business customer form
-------------------------------------
3. Double-click the Business entity to open it in the editor.
4. Click Add.
5. Select Form
6. Set the Display Name to Create Business Customer.
7. Set the Name to Create
8. Set the Description to Default form for creating business customers
9. Click Add.

Build the presentation for a business customer form
-----------------------------------------------------------
1. Select the Create form from the Business entity.
2. Click Configure
3. Click Toggle grid.
4. In the Components panel, drag the Id property and drop it in the
Presentation panel.
5. Change the Type feature on the right side to Text only.
6. Under the Show label feature, change the label to Business ID
7. Drag the Client Code property and drop it to the right of the ID field.
8. Set the Client Code field to Required
9. Drag the Company property and drop it beneath the ID field.
10. Set the Display of Company to Required
11. Drag the Contact field and place it to the right of Company.
12. Save and close the form.
13. Your form should resemble the following example.



Build an order form with relationships
---------------------------------------
1. Open the Warehouse Application in the Northwind Workspace and
expand the Entities folder.
2. Double-click the Order entity to open it in the editor.
3. Click Add.
4. Select Form
5. Set the Display Name to New Order.
6. Set the Name to Create
7. Set the Description to Form for new orders
8. Click Add.
9. In the editor, select the form and click Configure
10. Click Toggle grid.
11. Drag the Id field and drop it on the presentation.
12. Set the presentation of the Id field to Text only
13. Change the Label of the Id field to “Order Number”.
14. Drag the Order Date property and drop it onto the presentation.
15. Drag the Requested Date property and drop it onto the presentation.
16. Drag the Employee property and drop it onto the presentation.
By default, since the data type of the property is an enumerated integer, the presentation will be set to a radio button option.
17. Change the Type to Drop list.
18. Resize and align the fields in the Presentation panel.
19. Under the Other section on the left of the editor, drag a Tab Container
and drop it next to the fields in the presentation.
20. Select a gray area in the header of the tab container, to the right of the new tab.
It may help if you make the tabbed container larger.
21. On the right, set the number of tabs to 3
22. Select the first tab.
23. Set the tab’s container heading to Customer Info
24. From the Components section on the left, drag the [0..1] Bill To
relationship and drop it in the tabbed container.
25. Under Presentation on the right side, change the type from Button(s)
only to Drop list
26. Set the Browse list to Client List
This is the list which will be referenced for contents to the drop list.
27. Set the Property to Client Code
This is the value which will be visible to the user in the drop list.
28. Set Required to true.
29. Further down in the right-hand properties pane, under the Actions
section, make sure the Create option is selected.
This option, when enabled, allows users to create ad hoc Customer
instances while creating an Order instance.
30. Expand the Bill To relationship on the left and expand Properties.
31. Drag Address, City, Postal Code, and Phone to the Customer Info tab.
32. Set the Read-only property to true on each of these four fields.
33. Select the second tabbed container.
34. Set the tab’s container heading to Shipping Info
35. Drag the following Order properties and drop them on the Shipping Info
tab:
a. Ship Via (set the type to Drop list)
b. Freight
c. Shipped Date (set the Display to Read Only)
36. Select the third tabbed container.
37. Set the tab’s container heading to Items
38. Save and close the form.
39. Save and close the Order entity.
40. Validate the Warehouse Application.

Build and use a sub-form for customers
--------------------------------------------
1. Open the Warehouse Application if it is not already open.
2. Open the Customer entity.
3. Click Add.
4. Select Form
.
5. Set the Display Name to Address subform
.
6. Set the Name to subformAddress
.
7. Set the Description to Sub-form containing address info
.
8. Click Add.
9. Select the sub-form from the entity editor and click Configure
.
10. Under the Components section on the left, expand Properties.
11. Drag the Address, City, Region, Country, and Postal Code properties
and drop them onto the canvas.
12. Change the display name (i.e., label) of the Address field to Street in
order to prevent any ambiguity.
13. Resize and align the fields on the canvas appropriately.
14. Save and close the sub-form. Save the Customer entity if required.
15. Open the Business entity.
16. In the entity editor, select the Create form and click Configure.
17. On the left side, under Components, scroll to the bottom and drag the
Address sub-form into the editor.
18. Clear the Show container heading option.
19. Clear the Default border option.
20. Set the border style to No border.
21. Save and close the Create form.
22. Save and close the Business entity.
23. Validate your project.
24. Publish your project to the organization.
25. Open a browser window and navigate to Process Experience.
26. Log in as user analyst@training.local if you need to.
27. Click the Create (+) button in the upper right.
28. Select Business
.
The Create form that you prepared for the Business entity should be
displayed in a separate window.
29. Complete the form with some random values and click Create.
30. On the Process Experience home page, select Customer > Client List
from the left.
Your new customer should be displayed in the Results panel.
31. Click Create (+) and select Order to create an order.
32. Set the date ordered and employee name.
33. On the Customer Info tab, use the drop-down to select the customer
you just created.
If you added address values for your new customer item, they should be
automatically populated into the read-only fields of the form.
34. On the Shipping Info tab, set some values for Ship Via and a cost for
freight.
35. Click Create to finish building the new order. You do not need any
values for the items yet.
36. Select the Order list. Does your new order appear in the list?
37. Click the new order or, alternatively, select it and click Open. Are you
able to edit the order? Discuss.



Build a sub-form for Order with grid container
1. Return to the Process Platform collaborative workspace.
2. Open the Order entity from the Warehouse Application.
3. Click Add > Form
.
4. Set the display name to Order Items Grid subform and the name to
subformOrderItemsGrid
.
5. Set the Description to Order Items sub-form with grid presentation
.
6. Click Add, then click Configure
.
7. Under the Relationships section in the Components panel, drag the
[1..*] Order Line relationship to the editor.
Since Order Line is in a child relationship with Order, Process Platform will
automatically create a multi-item group container. By default, Process
Platform uses a repeating group container.
8. Clear the Show container heading setting.
9. Change the type of container to Grid
.
10. Under the Available actions section on the right, make sure the Open,
Delete, and Create options are enabled for the container.
11. Under the Order Line item in the Components panel, locate the
Relationships section.
12. Drag the [0..1] Product Ordered relationship and drop it inside the Order
Line grid container.
You must drop the Product Ordered relationship inside the Order Line
repeating group because there could be many products ordered, but only
product per line.
The relationship is added as a column to the grid.
13. For the Product Ordered relationship column, set the Browse list to
Product Catalog
.
14. Set the Property to Name
.
15. Make sure that Browse and Clear are the only available actions which
are enabled.
End users should be able to select or remove a product for the Order, but
should not be able to create new products during an order.
16. Drag the following properties and drop them inside the Order Line grid
container:
a. Order Line > Price (set to Read-only)
b. Order Line > Quantity
c. Order Line > Discount
17. Resize and align the fields on the form to create an organized, ordered
presentation. You can drag columns in the grid container to rearrange
them.
18. Save and close the sub-form.
19. Open the Create form for order.
20. Click Configure
.
21. Switch to the Items tab in the order form.
22. Drag the Order Items Grid subform and drop it into the Items tab.
23. Clear Show container heading.
24. Clear Default border and set the border type to No border.
25. Resize the tabbed panel container as required to make sure that
scrolling is not necessary.
26. Save and close the Create form.
27. Save and close the Order entity.
28. Validate and publish your solution.
29. Switch to Process Experience. Refresh the browser to collect your
published changes.
30. Click the ‘+’ button and create an order.
31. Set the date ordered, employee, and client fields. Remember that you
can create an ad hoc customer instance with the customer create
button.
32. Select the Items tab.
33. Click ‘+’ to add a new row to the grid.
34. Select the first column and click the drop-down arrow.
35. Click Browse.
The Product Catalog opens in a separate dialog.
You have not yet created a Create form for the Product entity, so there are
no items for you to select.
36. Click Cancel.
37. Click Create: you will add items later.





















