UDDI Interceptor
UDDI connector provides a mechanism, UDDI Interceptor, to manipulate SOAP requests passing from the Process Platform environment to an external Web service. This mechanism is needed as the underlying backend system imposes specific requirements on how to interact with it.
A UDDI Interceptor is a Java class that enables manipulating SOAP requests passing from the Process Platform environment to an external Web service, by implementing the interfacecom.eibus.applicationconnector.uddi.Interceptor. UDDI interceptor intercepts the request before it goes to the external service from Process Platform and similarly intercepts the response (either success or failure).
This interface, com.eibus.applicationconnector.uddi.Interceptor, contains the following Web service operations:

public void initialize(int methodImplementation);
public void onRequest(int request);
public void onResponse(int response);
public void onSOAPFault(int soapFault); 
Within the UDDI connector, the role of the Interceptor in the execution flow is as follows:

The UDDI connector checks an incoming request to ascertain whether an interceptor has been defined in the LDAP Web service operation implementation.
If an interceptor is defined, an interceptor object is created using the default constructor.
The Web service operation onRequest is called on the Interceptor object. At this point the request is manipulated, if required.
The request is sent to the external service and a response is received subsequently.
If a SOAPFault is returned, the Web service operation, onSOAPFault , is called on the Interceptor object. Else, the Web service operation, onResponse, is called on the Interceptor object.
Exception Handling

If an exception is thrown inside the interceptor code, UDDI connector will throw anInterceptorExceptionthat contains information about the exception thrown.

Definition

The UDDI connector uses the information from the Web service operation implementation (in LDAP) to call the external Web service. An example of such an implementation 